audio-ai.md, before:

[🏠Home](README.md)

# Audio
## Compression
- [EnCodec](https://github.com/facebookresearch/encodec) SOTA deep learning based audio codec supporting both mono 24 kHz audio and stereo 48 kHz audio

## Multiple Tasks
- [audio-webui](https://github.com/gitmylo/audio-webui) A web-based UI for various audio-related Neural Networks with features like text-to-audio, voice cloning, and automatic-speech-recognition using Bark, AudioLDM, AudioCraft, RVC, coqui-ai and Whisper
- [tts-generation-webui](https://github.com/rsxdalv/tts-generation-webui) for all things TTS, currently supports Bark v2, MusicGen, Tortoise, Vocos
- [Speechbrain](https://github.com/speechbrain/speechbrain) A PyTorch-based Speech Toolkit for TTS, STT, etc
- [Nvidia NeMo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo) TTS, LLM, Audio Synthesis framework
- [speech-rest-api](https://github.com/askrella/speech-rest-api) for Speech-To-Text and Text-To-Speech with Whisper and Speechbrain
- [LangHelper](https://github.com/NsLearning/LangHelper) language learning through Text-to-speech + chatGPT + speech-to-text to practise speaking assessments, memorizing words and listening tests
- [Silero-models](https://github.com/snakers4/silero-models) pre-trained speech-to-text, text-to-speech and text-enhancement for ONNX, PyTorch, TensorFlow, SSML
- [AI-Waifu-Vtuber](https://github.com/ardha27/AI-Waifu-Vtuber) AI Waifu Vtuber & is a virtual streamer. Supports multiple languages and uses VoiceVox, DeepL, Whisper, Seliro TTS, and VtubeStudio, and now also supports Twitch streaming.
- [Voicebox](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/voicebox-generative-ai-model-speech/) large-scale text-guided generative speech model using non-autoregressive flow-matching, [paper](https://research.facebook.com/publications/voicebox-text-guided-multilingual-universal-speech-generation-at-scale/), [demo](https://voicebox.metademolab.com)



## Speech Recognition
- [Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) SOTA local open-source speech recognition in many languages and translation into English
  - [Whisper JAX implementation](https://github.com/sanchit-gandhi/whisper-jax) runs around 70x faster on CPU, GPU and TPU
  - [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp) C/C++ port for Intel and ARM based Mac OS, ANdroid, iOS, Linux, WebAssembly, Windows, Raspberry Pi
  - [faster-whisper-livestream-translator](https://github.com/JonathanFly/faster-whisper-livestream-translator) A buggy proof of concept for real-time translation of livestreams using Whisper models, with suggestions for improvements including noise reduction and dual language subtitles
  - [Buzz](https://github.com/chidiwilliams/buzz) Mac GUI for Whisper
  - [whisperX](https://github.com/m-bain/whisperX) Fast automatic speech recognition (70x realtime with large-v2) using OpenAI's Whisper, word-level timestamps, speaker diarization, and voice activity detection
- [ermine-ai | Whisper in the browser using transformers.js](https://github.com/vishnumenon/ermine-ai)
- [wav2vec2 dimensional emotion model](https://github.com/audeering/w2v2-how-to)
- [MeetingSummarizer](https://github.com/rajpdus/MeetingSummarizer) using Whisper and GPT3.dd
- [Facebook MMS: Speech recognition of over 1000 languages](https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/main/examples/mms)

## TextToSpeech
-   [Bark](https://github.com/suno-ai/bark) transformer-based text-to-audio model by Suno. Can generate highly realistic, multilingual speech and other audio like music, background noise and simple effects
    -   [Bark-Voice-Clones](https://github.com/nikaskeba/Bark-Voice-Clones)
    -   [Bark WebUI colab notebooks](https://github.com/camenduru/bark-colab)
    -   [bark-with-voice-clone](https://github.com/serp-ai/bark-with-voice-clone)
    -   [Bark Infinity for longer audio](https://github.com/JonathanFly/bark)
    -   [Bark WebUI](https://github.com/makawy7/bark-webui)
    -   [bark-voice-cloning-HuBERT-quantizer](https://github.com/gitmylo/bark-voice-cloning-HuBERT-quantizer) Voice cloning with bark in high quality using Python 3.10 and  ggingface models.
    -   [Bark GUI](https://github.com/C0untFloyd/bark-gui) Gradio Web UI for an extended Bark version, with long generation, cloning, SSML, for Windows and other platforms, supporting NVIDIA/Apple GPU/CPU, 
-   [Coqui TTS | deep learning toolkit for Text-to-Speech](https://github.com/coqui-ai/TTS)
    -   [Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dfmlyXHQOwE) for Coqui VITS and Whisper to automate voice cloning and [Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1Swo0GH_PjjAMqYYV6He9uFaq5TQsJ7ZH?usp=sharing#scrollTo=nSrZbKCXxalg)
-   [StyleTTS implementation](https://github.com/yl4579/StyleTTS)
  -   [StyleTTS-VC](https://github.com/yl4579/StyleTTS-VC) One-Shot Voice Conversion by Knowledge Transfer from Style-Based TTS Models
-   [Vall-E and Vall-E X](https://valle-demo.github.io/), [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.02111), [code](https://github.com/enhuiz/vall-e). Zero Shot TTS preserving emotion, expression, similarity and allows language transfer
  -  [Vall-e PyTorch Implementation](https://github.com/enhuiz/vall-e) of Vall-E based on EnCodec tokenizer
  -  [Vall-E PyTorch implementation](https://github.com/lifeiteng/vall-e)
-   [NaturalSpeech implmenetation](https://github.com/heatz123/naturalspeech)
-   [IMS Toucan, TTS Toolkit from University of Stuttgart](https://github.com/digitalphonetics/ims-toucan)
-   [YourTTS | Zero Shot Multi Speaker TTS and Voice Conversion for everyone](https://github.com/Edresson/YourTTS)
-   [PaddleSpeech | Easy to use Speech Toolkit with Self Supervised learning, SOTA Streaming with punctuation, TTS, Translation etc](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleSpeech)
-   [Tortoise TTS | Open source multi voice TTS system](https://github.com/neonbjb/tortoise-tts)
    -   [finetune guide using DLAS DL-Art-School](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lnIq4SFFXWs), [Master Deep Voice Cloning in Minutes](https://youtu.be/OiMRlqcgDL0)
    -   [DL-Art-School](https://github.com/152334H/DL-Art-School) fine tuning tortoise with DLAS GUI
    -   [tortoise-tts-fast](https://github.com/152334H/tortoise-tts-fast) fast Tortoise TTS inference up to 5x. [Video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8i4T5v1Fl_M)
    -   [Tortoise mrq fork for voice cloning](https://git.ecker.tech/mrq/ai-voice-cloning)
-   [piper](https://github.com/rhasspy/piper) A fast, local neural text to speech system that sounds great and is optimized for the Raspberry Pi 4. Using VITS and onnxruntime
-   [PITS](https://github.com/anonymous-pits/pits) PyTorch implementation of Variational Pitch Inference for End-to-end Pitch-controllable TTS. [hf demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/anonymous-pits/pits), [samples](https://anonymous-pits.github.io/pits/)
-   [VoiceCloning](https://github.com/MartinMashalov/VoiceCloning) Implementing the [YourTTS paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.02418) for Zero-Shot multi-speaker Attention-Based TTS using VITS approaches
  -   [VITS-Umamusume-voice-synthesizer](https://huggingface.co/spaces/1raliopunche/VITS-Umamusume-voice-synthesizer) (Multilingual Anime TTS) Including Japanese TTS, Chinese and English TTS, speakers are all anime characters.
-   [Parallel WaveGAN implementation in PyTorch](https://github.com/kan-bayashi/ParallelWaveGAN) for high quality text to speech synthesis [paper](https://github.com/kan-bayashi/ParallelWaveGAN)


## Voice Conversion

-   [voicepaw/so-vits-svc-fork](https://github.com/voicepaw/so-vits-svc-fork) SoftVC VITS Singing Voice Conversion Fork with realtime support and greatly improved interface. Based on so-vits-svc 4.0 (v1)
    -   [Video tutorial by Nerdy Rodent](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tZn0lcGO5OQ)
    -   [nateraw/so-vits-svc-fork gradio app](https://github.com/nateraw/voice-cloning) for inference of so-vits-svc-fork voice models + ([training in colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/nateraw/voice-cloning/blob/main/training_so_vits_svc_fork.ipynb) with yt downloader and audio splitter, [hf space demo](https://hf.co/spaces/nateraw/voice-cloning))
    -   [so-vits-svc-5.0](https://github.com/PlayVoice/so-vits-svc-5.0)
    -   [LoRa svc](https://github.com/PlayVoice/lora-svc) singing voice conversion based on whisper, and lora
    -   [RVC-Project](https://github.com/RVC-Project/Retrieval-based-Voice-Conversion-WebUI) simple and easy-to-use voice transformation (voice changer) web GUI based on VITS
        -   [rvc-webui](https://github.com/ddPn08/rvc-webui) Win/Mac/Linux installer and Guide for RVC-Project
        -   [RVC-GUI](https://github.com/Tiger14n/RVC-GUI) fork of RVC for easy audio file voice conversion locally, only inference, no training
    -   [w-okada/voice-changer](https://github.com/w-okada/voice-changer) supports MMVC, so-vits-svc, RVC, DDSP-SVC, processing offloading over LAN, real time conversion
    -   [DDSP-SVC](https://github.com/yxlllc/DDSP-SVC) Real-time singing voice conversion based on DDSP, training and inference uses lower requirements than diff-svc and so-vits-svc
    -   [Leader board of SOTA models](https://github.com/Anjok07/ultimatevocalremovergui/issues/344) for stem separation using model ensembles in UVR
    -   [VITS GUI to load VITS text to speech models](https://github.com/CjangCjengh/MoeGoe_GUI)
    -   [Vits-fast-fine-tuning](https://github.com/Plachtaa/VITS-fast-fine-tuning) pipeline of VITS finetuning for fast speaker adaptation TTS, and many-to-many voice conversion
    -   [AI-Cover-Song](https://github.com/reshalfahsi/AI-Cover-Song) a google colab to do singing voice conversion with so-vits-svc-fork
    -   [hf-rvc](https://github.com/esnya/hf-rvc) a package for RVC implementation using HuggingFace's transformers with the capability to convert from original unsafe models to HF models and voice conversion tasks
    -   [VitsServer](https://github.com/LlmKira/VitsServer) A VITS ONNX server designed for fast inference
    -   [jax-so-vits-svc-5.0](https://github.com/flyingblackshark/jax-so-vits-svc-5.0) Rewrite so-vits-svc-5.0 in jax
-   [w-okada/voice-changer | real time voice conversion using various models like MMVC, so-vits-svc, RVC, DDSP-SVC](https://github.com/w-okada/voice-changer/blob/master/README_en.md)
-   [Diff-svc](https://github.com/prophesier/diff-svc) Singing Voice Conversion via Diffusion model
  -   [FastDiff implementation| Fast Conditional Diffusion Model for High-Quality Speech Synthesis](https://github.com/Rongjiehuang/FastDiff)
  -   [Fish Diffusion](https://github.com/fishaudio/fish-diffusion) easy to understand TTS / SVS / SVC framework, can convert Diff models
-   [Auto-synced-translated-dubs](https://github.com/ThioJoe/Auto-Synced-Translated-Dubs) Youtube audio translation and dubbing pipeline using Whisper speech-to-text, Google/DeepL Translate, Azure/Google TTS
-   [Real-Time-Voice-Cloning](https://github.com/CorentinJ/Real-Time-Voice-Cloning) abandoned project
    -   [Real-Time-Voice-Cloning v2](https://github.com/liuhaozhe6788/voice-cloning-collab) active fork of the original
-  [Raven with voice cloning 2.0](https://huggingface.co/spaces/Kevin676/Raven-with-Voice-Cloning-2.0/tree/main) by Kevin676
-  [CoMoSpeech](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/comospeech-one-step-speech-and-singing-voice) paper, consistency model distilled from a diffusion-based teacher model, enabling high-quality one-step speech and singing voice synthesis
-  [NS2VC](https://github.com/adelacvg/NS2VC) WIP Unofficial implementation of NaturalSpeech2 for Voice Conversion
-  [vc-lm](https://github.com/nilboy/vc-lm) train an any-to-one voice conversion models, referncing vall-e, using encodec to create tokens and building a transformer language model on tokens
-  [knn-vc](https://github.com/bshall/knn-vc) official implementation of Voice Conversion With Just Nearest Neighbors (kNN-VC) contains training and inference for any-to-any voice conversion model, [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18975), [examples](https://bshall.github.io/knn-vc/)
-  [FreeVC](https://github.com/OlaWod/FreeVC) High-Quality Text-Free One-Shot Voice Conversion including pretrained models [HF demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/OlaWod/FreeVC), [examples](https://olawod.github.io/FreeVC-demo)
-  [TriAAN-VC](https://github.com/winddori2002/TriAAN-VC) a Pytorch deep learning model for any-to-any voice conversion, with SOTA performance achieved by using an attention-based adaptive normalization block to extract target speaker representations while minimizing the loss of the source content. [demo](https://winddori2002.github.io/vc-demo.github.io/), [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.09057)
-  [EasyVC](https://github.com/MingjieChen/EasyVC) toolkit supporting various encoders and decoders, focusing on challenging VC scenarios such as one-shot, emotional, singing, and real-time. [demo](https://mingjiechen.github.io/easyvc/index.html)
-  [MoeVoiceStudio](https://github.com/NaruseMioShirakana/MoeVoiceStudio/tree/MoeVoiceStudio) GUI supporting JOKE, SoVits, DiffSvc, DiffSinger, RVC, FishDiffusion

## Music Generation
- [audiocraft](https://github.com/facebookresearch/audiocraft) library for audio processing and generation with deep learning using EnCodec compressor / tokenizer and MusicGen support
- [MusicGen](https://huggingface.co/spaces/facebook/MusicGen) a simple and controllable model for music generation using a Transformer model [examples](https://ai.honu.io/papers/musicgen/), [colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1-Xe9NCdIs2sCUbiSmwHXozK6AAhMm7_i?usp=sharing), [colab collection](https://github.com/camenduru/MusicGen-colab)
- [AudioLDM](https://audioldm.github.io/) Generate speech, sound effects, music and beyond, with text [code](https://github.com/haoheliu/AudioLDM), [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12503), [HF demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/haoheliu/audioldm-text-to-audio-generation)

Commit message:

added lots of audiocraft UIs

audio-ai.md, after:

[🏠Home](README.md)

# Audio
## Compression
- [EnCodec](https://github.com/facebookresearch/encodec) SOTA deep learning based audio codec supporting both mono 24 kHz audio and stereo 48 kHz audio

## Multiple Tasks
- [audio-webui](https://github.com/gitmylo/audio-webui) A web-based UI for various audio-related Neural Networks with features like text-to-audio, voice cloning, and automatic-speech-recognition using Bark, AudioLDM, AudioCraft, RVC, coqui-ai and Whisper
- [tts-generation-webui](https://github.com/rsxdalv/tts-generation-webui) for all things TTS, currently supports Bark v2, MusicGen, Tortoise, Vocos
- [Speechbrain](https://github.com/speechbrain/speechbrain) A PyTorch-based Speech Toolkit for TTS, STT, etc
- [Nvidia NeMo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NeMo) TTS, LLM, Audio Synthesis framework
- [speech-rest-api](https://github.com/askrella/speech-rest-api) for Speech-To-Text and Text-To-Speech with Whisper and Speechbrain
- [LangHelper](https://github.com/NsLearning/LangHelper) language learning through Text-to-speech + chatGPT + speech-to-text to practise speaking assessments, memorizing words and listening tests
- [Silero-models](https://github.com/snakers4/silero-models) pre-trained speech-to-text, text-to-speech and text-enhancement for ONNX, PyTorch, TensorFlow, SSML
- [AI-Waifu-Vtuber](https://github.com/ardha27/AI-Waifu-Vtuber) AI Waifu Vtuber & is a virtual streamer. Supports multiple languages and uses VoiceVox, DeepL, Whisper, Seliro TTS, and VtubeStudio, and now also supports Twitch streaming.
- [Voicebox](https://ai.facebook.com/blog/voicebox-generative-ai-model-speech/) large-scale text-guided generative speech model using non-autoregressive flow-matching, [paper](https://research.facebook.com/publications/voicebox-text-guided-multilingual-universal-speech-generation-at-scale/), [demo](https://voicebox.metademolab.com)



## Speech Recognition
- [Whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper) SOTA local open-source speech recognition in many languages and translation into English
  - [Whisper JAX implementation](https://github.com/sanchit-gandhi/whisper-jax) runs around 70x faster on CPU, GPU and TPU
  - [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp) C/C++ port for Intel and ARM based Mac OS, ANdroid, iOS, Linux, WebAssembly, Windows, Raspberry Pi
  - [faster-whisper-livestream-translator](https://github.com/JonathanFly/faster-whisper-livestream-translator) A buggy proof of concept for real-time translation of livestreams using Whisper models, with suggestions for improvements including noise reduction and dual language subtitles
  - [Buzz](https://github.com/chidiwilliams/buzz) Mac GUI for Whisper
  - [whisperX](https://github.com/m-bain/whisperX) Fast automatic speech recognition (70x realtime with large-v2) using OpenAI's Whisper, word-level timestamps, speaker diarization, and voice activity detection
- [ermine-ai | Whisper in the browser using transformers.js](https://github.com/vishnumenon/ermine-ai)
- [wav2vec2 dimensional emotion model](https://github.com/audeering/w2v2-how-to)
- [MeetingSummarizer](https://github.com/rajpdus/MeetingSummarizer) using Whisper and GPT3.dd
- [Facebook MMS: Speech recognition of over 1000 languages](https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq/tree/main/examples/mms)

## TextToSpeech
-   [Bark](https://github.com/suno-ai/bark) transformer-based text-to-audio model by Suno. Can generate highly realistic, multilingual speech and other audio like music, background noise and simple effects
    -   [Bark-Voice-Clones](https://github.com/nikaskeba/Bark-Voice-Clones)
    -   [Bark WebUI colab notebooks](https://github.com/camenduru/bark-colab)
    -   [bark-with-voice-clone](https://github.com/serp-ai/bark-with-voice-clone)
    -   [Bark Infinity for longer audio](https://github.com/JonathanFly/bark)
    -   [Bark WebUI](https://github.com/makawy7/bark-webui)
    -   [bark-voice-cloning-HuBERT-quantizer](https://github.com/gitmylo/bark-voice-cloning-HuBERT-quantizer) Voice cloning with bark in high quality using Python 3.10 and  ggingface models.
    -   [bark-gui](https://github.com/C0untFloyd/bark-gui) Gradio Web UI for an extended Bark version, with long generation, cloning, SSML, for Windows and other platforms, supporting NVIDIA/Apple GPU/CPU, 
-   [Coqui TTS | deep learning toolkit for Text-to-Speech](https://github.com/coqui-ai/TTS)
    -   [Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dfmlyXHQOwE) for Coqui VITS and Whisper to automate voice cloning and [Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1Swo0GH_PjjAMqYYV6He9uFaq5TQsJ7ZH?usp=sharing#scrollTo=nSrZbKCXxalg)
-   [StyleTTS implementation](https://github.com/yl4579/StyleTTS)
  -   [StyleTTS-VC](https://github.com/yl4579/StyleTTS-VC) One-Shot Voice Conversion by Knowledge Transfer from Style-Based TTS Models
-   [Vall-E and Vall-E X](https://valle-demo.github.io/), [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.02111), [code](https://github.com/enhuiz/vall-e). Zero Shot TTS preserving emotion, expression, similarity and allows language transfer
  -  [Vall-e PyTorch Implementation](https://github.com/enhuiz/vall-e) of Vall-E based on EnCodec tokenizer
  -  [Vall-E PyTorch implementation](https://github.com/lifeiteng/vall-e)
-   [NaturalSpeech implmenetation](https://github.com/heatz123/naturalspeech)
-   [IMS Toucan, TTS Toolkit from University of Stuttgart](https://github.com/digitalphonetics/ims-toucan)
-   [YourTTS | Zero Shot Multi Speaker TTS and Voice Conversion for everyone](https://github.com/Edresson/YourTTS)
-   [PaddleSpeech | Easy to use Speech Toolkit with Self Supervised learning, SOTA Streaming with punctuation, TTS, Translation etc](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleSpeech)
-   [Tortoise TTS | Open source multi voice TTS system](https://github.com/neonbjb/tortoise-tts)
    -   [finetune guide using DLAS DL-Art-School](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lnIq4SFFXWs), [Master Deep Voice Cloning in Minutes](https://youtu.be/OiMRlqcgDL0)
    -   [DL-Art-School](https://github.com/152334H/DL-Art-School) fine tuning tortoise with DLAS GUI
    -   [tortoise-tts-fast](https://github.com/152334H/tortoise-tts-fast) fast Tortoise TTS inference up to 5x. [Video tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8i4T5v1Fl_M)
    -   [Tortoise mrq fork for voice cloning](https://git.ecker.tech/mrq/ai-voice-cloning)
-   [piper](https://github.com/rhasspy/piper) A fast, local neural text to speech system that sounds great and is optimized for the Raspberry Pi 4. Using VITS and onnxruntime
-   [PITS](https://github.com/anonymous-pits/pits) PyTorch implementation of Variational Pitch Inference for End-to-end Pitch-controllable TTS. [hf demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/anonymous-pits/pits), [samples](https://anonymous-pits.github.io/pits/)
-   [VoiceCloning](https://github.com/MartinMashalov/VoiceCloning) Implementing the [YourTTS paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.02418) for Zero-Shot multi-speaker Attention-Based TTS using VITS approaches
  -   [VITS-Umamusume-voice-synthesizer](https://huggingface.co/spaces/1raliopunche/VITS-Umamusume-voice-synthesizer) (Multilingual Anime TTS) Including Japanese TTS, Chinese and English TTS, speakers are all anime characters.
-   [Parallel WaveGAN implementation in PyTorch](https://github.com/kan-bayashi/ParallelWaveGAN) for high quality text to speech synthesis [paper](https://github.com/kan-bayashi/ParallelWaveGAN)


## Voice Conversion

-   [voicepaw/so-vits-svc-fork](https://github.com/voicepaw/so-vits-svc-fork) SoftVC VITS Singing Voice Conversion Fork with realtime support and greatly improved interface. Based on so-vits-svc 4.0 (v1)
    -   [Video tutorial by Nerdy Rodent](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tZn0lcGO5OQ)
    -   [nateraw/so-vits-svc-fork gradio app](https://github.com/nateraw/voice-cloning) for inference of so-vits-svc-fork voice models + ([training in colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/nateraw/voice-cloning/blob/main/training_so_vits_svc_fork.ipynb) with yt downloader and audio splitter, [hf space demo](https://hf.co/spaces/nateraw/voice-cloning))
    -   [so-vits-svc-5.0](https://github.com/PlayVoice/so-vits-svc-5.0)
    -   [LoRa svc](https://github.com/PlayVoice/lora-svc) singing voice conversion based on whisper, and lora
    -   [RVC-Project](https://github.com/RVC-Project/Retrieval-based-Voice-Conversion-WebUI) simple and easy-to-use voice transformation (voice changer) web GUI based on VITS
        -   [rvc-webui](https://github.com/ddPn08/rvc-webui) Win/Mac/Linux installer and Guide for RVC-Project
        -   [RVC-GUI](https://github.com/Tiger14n/RVC-GUI) fork of RVC for easy audio file voice conversion locally, only inference, no training
    -   [w-okada/voice-changer](https://github.com/w-okada/voice-changer) supports MMVC, so-vits-svc, RVC, DDSP-SVC, processing offloading over LAN, real time conversion
    -   [DDSP-SVC](https://github.com/yxlllc/DDSP-SVC) Real-time singing voice conversion based on DDSP, training and inference uses lower requirements than diff-svc and so-vits-svc
    -   [Leader board of SOTA models](https://github.com/Anjok07/ultimatevocalremovergui/issues/344) for stem separation using model ensembles in UVR
    -   [VITS GUI to load VITS text to speech models](https://github.com/CjangCjengh/MoeGoe_GUI)
    -   [Vits-fast-fine-tuning](https://github.com/Plachtaa/VITS-fast-fine-tuning) pipeline of VITS finetuning for fast speaker adaptation TTS, and many-to-many voice conversion
    -   [AI-Cover-Song](https://github.com/reshalfahsi/AI-Cover-Song) a google colab to do singing voice conversion with so-vits-svc-fork
    -   [hf-rvc](https://github.com/esnya/hf-rvc) a package for RVC implementation using HuggingFace's transformers with the capability to convert from original unsafe models to HF models and voice conversion tasks
    -   [VitsServer](https://github.com/LlmKira/VitsServer) A VITS ONNX server designed for fast inference
    -   [jax-so-vits-svc-5.0](https://github.com/flyingblackshark/jax-so-vits-svc-5.0) Rewrite so-vits-svc-5.0 in jax
-   [w-okada/voice-changer | real time voice conversion using various models like MMVC, so-vits-svc, RVC, DDSP-SVC](https://github.com/w-okada/voice-changer/blob/master/README_en.md)
-   [Diff-svc](https://github.com/prophesier/diff-svc) Singing Voice Conversion via Diffusion model
  -   [FastDiff implementation| Fast Conditional Diffusion Model for High-Quality Speech Synthesis](https://github.com/Rongjiehuang/FastDiff)
  -   [Fish Diffusion](https://github.com/fishaudio/fish-diffusion) easy to understand TTS / SVS / SVC framework, can convert Diff models
-   [Auto-synced-translated-dubs](https://github.com/ThioJoe/Auto-Synced-Translated-Dubs) Youtube audio translation and dubbing pipeline using Whisper speech-to-text, Google/DeepL Translate, Azure/Google TTS
-   [Real-Time-Voice-Cloning](https://github.com/CorentinJ/Real-Time-Voice-Cloning) abandoned project
    -   [Real-Time-Voice-Cloning v2](https://github.com/liuhaozhe6788/voice-cloning-collab) active fork of the original
-  [Raven with voice cloning 2.0](https://huggingface.co/spaces/Kevin676/Raven-with-Voice-Cloning-2.0/tree/main) by Kevin676
-  [CoMoSpeech](https://paperswithcode.com/paper/comospeech-one-step-speech-and-singing-voice) paper, consistency model distilled from a diffusion-based teacher model, enabling high-quality one-step speech and singing voice synthesis
-  [NS2VC](https://github.com/adelacvg/NS2VC) WIP Unofficial implementation of NaturalSpeech2 for Voice Conversion
-  [vc-lm](https://github.com/nilboy/vc-lm) train an any-to-one voice conversion models, referncing vall-e, using encodec to create tokens and building a transformer language model on tokens
-  [knn-vc](https://github.com/bshall/knn-vc) official implementation of Voice Conversion With Just Nearest Neighbors (kNN-VC) contains training and inference for any-to-any voice conversion model, [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18975), [examples](https://bshall.github.io/knn-vc/)
-  [FreeVC](https://github.com/OlaWod/FreeVC) High-Quality Text-Free One-Shot Voice Conversion including pretrained models [HF demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/OlaWod/FreeVC), [examples](https://olawod.github.io/FreeVC-demo)
-  [TriAAN-VC](https://github.com/winddori2002/TriAAN-VC) a Pytorch deep learning model for any-to-any voice conversion, with SOTA performance achieved by using an attention-based adaptive normalization block to extract target speaker representations while minimizing the loss of the source content. [demo](https://winddori2002.github.io/vc-demo.github.io/), [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.09057)
-  [EasyVC](https://github.com/MingjieChen/EasyVC) toolkit supporting various encoders and decoders, focusing on challenging VC scenarios such as one-shot, emotional, singing, and real-time. [demo](https://mingjiechen.github.io/easyvc/index.html)
-  [MoeVoiceStudio](https://github.com/NaruseMioShirakana/MoeVoiceStudio/tree/MoeVoiceStudio) GUI supporting JOKE, SoVits, DiffSvc, DiffSinger, RVC, FishDiffusion

## Music Generation
- [audiocraft](https://github.com/facebookresearch/audiocraft) library for audio processing and generation with deep learning using EnCodec compressor / tokenizer and MusicGen support
  - audiocraft-infinity-webui webui supporting generation longer than 30 seconds, song continuation, seed option, load local models from chavinlo's [training repo](https://github.com/chavinlo/musicgen_trainer), MacOS/linux support, running on CPU/gpu
  - [musicgen_trainer](https://github.com/chavinlo/musicgen_trainer) simple trainer for musicgen/audiocraft
  - [audiocraft-webui](https://github.com/CoffeeVampir3/audiocraft-webui) basic webui with support for long audio, segmented audio and processing queue
  - [audiocraft-webui](https://github.com/sdbds/audiocraft-webui) another basic webui, unknown feature set
  - [MusicGeneration](https://github.com/vluz/MusicGeneration) a streamlit gui for audiocraft and musicgen
  - [audiocraftgui](https://github.com/DragonForgedTheArtist/audiocraftgui) with wxPython supporting continuous generation by using chunks and overlaps
- [MusicGen](https://huggingface.co/spaces/facebook/MusicGen) a simple and controllable model for music generation using a Transformer model [examples](https://ai.honu.io/papers/musicgen/), [colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1-Xe9NCdIs2sCUbiSmwHXozK6AAhMm7_i?usp=sharing), [colab collection](https://github.com/camenduru/MusicGen-colab)
- [AudioLDM](https://audioldm.github.io/) Generate speech, sound effects, music and beyond, with text [code](https://github.com/haoheliu/AudioLDM), [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.12503), [HF demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/haoheliu/audioldm-text-to-audio-generation)
