README.md, before:

# awesome-datascience
Collection of useful Datascience things across the web

# Table of Contents
- [Software](#software)
  - [Data Architecture](#data-architecture)
    - [ETL](#etl)
    - [Datastores / Databases](#datastores--databases)
    - [Job Scheduling / Workflows](#job-scheduling--workflows)
  - [Product Analytics](#product-analytics)
  - [Machine Learning IDEs](#machine-learning-ides)
  - [BI / Data Visualization / Reporting](#bi--data-visualization--reporting)
  - [Deployment Environments](#deployment-environments)
 - [Libraries](#libraries)
   - [Python](#python)
     - [Visualization](#visualization)
     - [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
 - [Learning](#learning)
   - [Courses](#courses)
     - [Free Courses](#free-courses)
     - [Paid Courses](#paid-courses)
     - [Free interactive learning websites](#free-interactive-learning-websites)
     - [Paid interactive learning websites](#paid-interactive-learning-websites)
   - [Books](#books)
     - [Statistics & Mathematics](#statistics--mathematics)
     - [Data Visualization](#data-visualization)
     - [Data Science in general](#data-science-in-general)
     - [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
     - [Data Architecture](#data-architecture)

# Software
## Data Architecture
- [Snowplow | Open enterprise-strength marketing and product analytics platform](https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow)
- [Snowflake | Cloud Data Platform](https://www.snowflake.com/)
- [Spark | Distributed data processing framework for ML, analytics and more](https://spark.apache.org/)
- [Databricks | Cloud platform for data engineering and data science by the makers of Spark](https://databricks.com/)

### ETL
- Talend Open Studio
- Tibco Jaspersoft ETL
- [Halzelcast Jet-start.sh - Distributed Streaming](https://jet-start.sh/)
- [Mode | Interactive data science meets modern BI for fast, exploratory analysis company-wide](https://mode.com/)

### Datastores / Databases
- [TimescaleDB | open-source database for scalable SQL time-series based on PostgreSQL](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb)
- [EventNative | open source, high-performance, event collection service](https://github.com/ksensehq/eventnative)
- [Apache Ignite | open-source in-memory distributed database, caching, and processing platform for transactional, analytical, and streaming workloads ](https://ignite.apache.org/)
- [Redis | open source in-memory advanced key-value store used as a database, cache and message broker](https://redis.io/)
- [Apache Kafka | Open-source distributed event streaming platform for high-performance data pipelines, streaming analytics, data integration](https://kafka.apache.org/)

### Job Scheduling / Workflows
- [Apache Airflow | Workflow scheduler using Directed Acyclical Graphs in Python](https://airflow.apache.org/)
- [Apache Oozie | Workflow scheduler to manage Hadoop jobs as Directed Acyclical Graphs in Java and XML](oozie.apache.org)

## Product Analytics
- [Mixpanel | self-serve product analytics to help you convert, engage, and retain more users](https://mixpanel.com/home/)

## Machine Learning IDEs
- [KNIME Analytics | open source software for creating visual data science workflows](https://www.knime.com/knime-analytics-platform)
- [Jupyter Hub / Lab / Notebooks | Open source single & multiuser IDE for data science and machine learning supporting Python and more](https://jupyter.org/)
- [Knowage | Open source BI and Analytics suite](https://www.knowage-suite.com/site/)
- [Microsoft R Open | open source platform for statistical analysis and data science](https://mran.microsoft.com/open)
- [Orange3 | Open source machine learning and data visualization and visual data analysis workflows](https://orange.biolab.si/)
- [RanalyticFlow | Open source data analysis software built on R, for interactive data analysis with or without R programming](https://r.analyticflow.com/en/)
- [Rapidminer Studio | data science platform that unites data prep, machine learning & predictive model deployment](https://rapidminer.com/)
- [RStudio | Desktop and cloud based single or collaborative IDE for R](https://rstudio.com/)


## BI / Data Visualization / Reporting
- [Tibco Spotfire Analytics | AI-powered, search-driven experience with built-in data wrangling and advanced analytics](https://www.tibco.com/products/tibco-spotfire)
- [Power BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
- [Tableau](https://www.tableau.com/)
- [Pentaho Business Analytics](https://www.hitachivantara.com/en-us/products/data-management-analytics/pentaho-platform/pentaho-business-analytics.html)
- [Panoply | Full service Analytics Stack](https://panoply.io/platform/)
- [QlikSense | Assisted BI Analytics suite](https://www.qlik.com/us/products/qlik-sense)
- [Klipfolio | metrics, meaningful dashboards, and actionable reports](https://www.klipfolio.com/)
- [Geckoboard | Self service dashboards for various Data Sources](https://www.geckoboard.com/)
- [Google Data Studio | Free dashboard and reporting service focused on marketing data sources](https://datastudio.google.com/)
- [Sisense | BI Analytics suite](https://www.sisense.com/)
- [Looker | BI Analytics suite](https://looker.com/)
- [Canopy.cloud | Reporting and Analytics for Investors and Wealth managers](https://canopy.cloud/)
- [Chartio | Dashboard and Reporting platform](https://chartio.com/)

## Deployment Environments
- [dstack - an open-source framework for building data science applications using Python and R](https://github.com/dstackai/dstack)

# Libraries
## Python
### Visualization
- [AutoViz](https://github.com/AutoViML/AutoViz), Automatically Visualize any dataset, any size with a single line of code.

### Machine Learning
- [MLBox | powerful Automated Machine Learning python library](https://github.com/AxeldeRomblay/MLBox)
- [PyCaret | open source low-code machine learning library in Python](https://github.com/pycaret/pycaret)
- [PyTorch Lightning | open-source Python library as a high-level interface for PyTorch](https://github.com/PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning)


# Learning
## Courses
### Free Courses
- Andrew Ng, Coursera, 54h [Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning)
- Herbert Lee, Coursera, 10h [Bayesian Statistics: From Concept to Data Analysis](https://www.coursera.org/learn/bayesian-statistics)
- Jeff Leek, Coursera/John Hopkins University, 300h [Data Science Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/jhu-data-science)
- CS109 Data Science, Harward [CS109](http://cs109.github.io/2015/pages/videos.html)
- Rafael Irizarry, Michael Love, Hardward/edX, 16h [Statistics and R](https://www.edx.org/course/statistics-and-r)
- Dave Holtz, Cheng-Han Lee, Udacity [Intro to Data Science](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-data-science--ud359)
- Christopher Brooks, University of Michigan, 120h [Applied Data Science with Python Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-science-python)
- Saeed Aghabozorgi, IBM, 20h [Machine Learning with Python](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning-with-python)

### Paid Courses
- Jose Portilla, Udemy, 25h [Python for Data Science and Machine Learning Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/python-for-data-science-and-machine-learning-bootcamp/)
- https://www.udemy.com/course/datascience

### Free interactive learning websites
- Learnpython [Learnpython.org](https://www.learnpython.org/)
- W3 Schools [SQL](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/)

### Paid interactive learning websites
- [Qwiklabs | Learn on cloud environments and instances of aws, google cloud](https://www.qwiklabs.com/)

## Books
### Statistics & Mathematics
- [Bayesian Methods for Hackers](https://www.amazon.com/Bayesian-Methods-Hackers-Probabilistic-Addison-Wesley/dp/0133902838)
- [Naked Statistics: Stripping the Dread from the Data](https://www.amazon.com/Naked-Statistics-Stripping-Dread-Data-ebook/dp/B007Q6XLF2)
- [How to lie with statistics](https://www.amazon.com/How-Lie-Statistics-Darrell-Huff-ebook-dp-B00351DSX2/dp/B00351DSX2)
- [An Introduction to Statistical Learning: with Applications in R](https://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Statistical-Learning-Applications-Statistics/dp/1461471370)
- [Naked Statistics: Stripping the Dread from the Data](https://www.amazon.com/Naked-Statistics-Stripping-Dread-Data/dp/039334777X/)

### Data Visualization
- [Effective Data Visualization: The Right Chart for the Right Data](https://www.amazon.com/Effective-Data-Visualization-Right-Chart/dp/1544350880)
- [Data-Driven Storytelling (AK Peters Visualization Series](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Driven-Storytelling-AK-Peters-Visualization/dp/1138197106)
- [Making Data Visual: A Practical Guide to Using Visualization for Insights](https://www.amazon.com/Making-Data-Visual-Practical-Visualization/dp/1491928468)
- [Data Visualisation: A Handbook for Data Driven Design](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Visualisation-Handbook-Driven-Design/dp/1473912148)
- [Storytelling with Data: A Data Visualization Guide for Business Professionals](https://www.amazon.com/Storytelling-Data-Visualization-Business-Professionals/dp/1119002257)
- [Fundamentals of Data Visualization: A Primer on Making Informative and Compelling Figures](https://www.amazon.com/Fundamentals-Data-Visualization-Informative-Compelling/dp/1492031089)
- [The Art of Data Science](https://www.amazon.com/Art-Data-Science-Roger-Peng/dp/1365061469)
- [Python: Data Analytics and Visualization](https://www.amazon.com/Python-Analytics-Visualization-Phuong-Vo-T-H/dp/1788290097)

### Data Science in general
- [Python Data Science Handbook](https://www.amazon.com/Python-Data-Science-Handbook-Essential/dp/1491912057)
- [Big Data Science & Analytics: A Hands-On Approach](https://www.amazon.com/Big-Data-Science-Analytics-Hands/dp/0996025537)
- [Data Science from Scratch: First Principles with Python](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Science-Scratch-Principles-Python/dp/1492041130)
- [Everybody Lies: Big Data, New Data, and What the Internet Can Tell Us About Who We Really Are](https://www.amazon.com/Everybody-Lies-Internet-About-Really-ebook/dp/B01AFXZ2F4)

### Machine Learning
- [Deep Learning (Adaptive Computation and Machine Learning series)](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-NONE-Ian-Goodfellow-ebook/dp/B01MRVFGX4)
- [Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and Techniques to Build Intelligent Systems](https://www.amazon.com/Hands-Machine-Learning-Scikit-Learn-TensorFlow/dp/1492032646/)

### Data Architecture
- [Designing Data-Intensive Applications: The Big Ideas Behind Reliable, Scalable, and Maintainable Systems](https://www.amazon.com/Designing-Data-Intensive-Applications-Reliable-Maintainable/dp/1449373321)

Commit message:

Added Lib>Py>Digital Marketing section

README.md, after:

# awesome-datascience
Collection of useful Datascience things across the web

# Table of Contents
- [Software](#software)
  - [Data Architecture](#data-architecture)
    - [ETL](#etl)
    - [Datastores / Databases](#datastores--databases)
    - [Job Scheduling / Workflows](#job-scheduling--workflows)
  - [Product Analytics](#product-analytics)
  - [Machine Learning IDEs](#machine-learning-ides)
  - [BI / Data Visualization / Reporting](#bi--data-visualization--reporting)
  - [Deployment Environments](#deployment-environments)
 - [Libraries](#libraries)
   - [Python](#python)
     - [Visualization](#visualization)
     - [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
 - [Learning](#learning)
   - [Courses](#courses)
     - [Free Courses](#free-courses)
     - [Paid Courses](#paid-courses)
     - [Free interactive learning websites](#free-interactive-learning-websites)
     - [Paid interactive learning websites](#paid-interactive-learning-websites)
   - [Books](#books)
     - [Statistics & Mathematics](#statistics--mathematics)
     - [Data Visualization](#data-visualization)
     - [Data Science in general](#data-science-in-general)
     - [Machine Learning](#machine-learning)
     - [Data Architecture](#data-architecture)

# Software
## Data Architecture
- [Snowplow | Open enterprise-strength marketing and product analytics platform](https://github.com/snowplow/snowplow)
- [Snowflake | Cloud Data Platform](https://www.snowflake.com/)
- [Spark | Distributed data processing framework for ML, analytics and more](https://spark.apache.org/)
- [Databricks | Cloud platform for data engineering and data science by the makers of Spark](https://databricks.com/)

### ETL
- Talend Open Studio
- Tibco Jaspersoft ETL
- [Halzelcast Jet-start.sh - Distributed Streaming](https://jet-start.sh/)
- [Mode | Interactive data science meets modern BI for fast, exploratory analysis company-wide](https://mode.com/)

### Datastores / Databases
- [TimescaleDB | open-source database for scalable SQL time-series based on PostgreSQL](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb)
- [EventNative | open source, high-performance, event collection service](https://github.com/ksensehq/eventnative)
- [Apache Ignite | open-source in-memory distributed database, caching, and processing platform for transactional, analytical, and streaming workloads ](https://ignite.apache.org/)
- [Redis | open source in-memory advanced key-value store used as a database, cache and message broker](https://redis.io/)
- [Apache Kafka | Open-source distributed event streaming platform for high-performance data pipelines, streaming analytics, data integration](https://kafka.apache.org/)

### Job Scheduling / Workflows
- [Apache Airflow | Workflow scheduler using Directed Acyclical Graphs in Python](https://airflow.apache.org/)
- [Apache Oozie | Workflow scheduler to manage Hadoop jobs as Directed Acyclical Graphs in Java and XML](oozie.apache.org)

## Product Analytics
- [Mixpanel | self-serve product analytics to help you convert, engage, and retain more users](https://mixpanel.com/home/)

## Machine Learning IDEs
- [KNIME Analytics | open source software for creating visual data science workflows](https://www.knime.com/knime-analytics-platform)
- [Jupyter Hub / Lab / Notebooks | Open source single & multiuser IDE for data science and machine learning supporting Python and more](https://jupyter.org/)
- [Knowage | Open source BI and Analytics suite](https://www.knowage-suite.com/site/)
- [Microsoft R Open | open source platform for statistical analysis and data science](https://mran.microsoft.com/open)
- [Orange3 | Open source machine learning and data visualization and visual data analysis workflows](https://orange.biolab.si/)
- [RanalyticFlow | Open source data analysis software built on R, for interactive data analysis with or without R programming](https://r.analyticflow.com/en/)
- [Rapidminer Studio | data science platform that unites data prep, machine learning & predictive model deployment](https://rapidminer.com/)
- [RStudio | Desktop and cloud based single or collaborative IDE for R](https://rstudio.com/)


## BI / Data Visualization / Reporting
- [Tibco Spotfire Analytics | AI-powered, search-driven experience with built-in data wrangling and advanced analytics](https://www.tibco.com/products/tibco-spotfire)
- [Power BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/en-us/)
- [Tableau](https://www.tableau.com/)
- [Pentaho Business Analytics](https://www.hitachivantara.com/en-us/products/data-management-analytics/pentaho-platform/pentaho-business-analytics.html)
- [Panoply | Full service Analytics Stack](https://panoply.io/platform/)
- [QlikSense | Assisted BI Analytics suite](https://www.qlik.com/us/products/qlik-sense)
- [Klipfolio | metrics, meaningful dashboards, and actionable reports](https://www.klipfolio.com/)
- [Geckoboard | Self service dashboards for various Data Sources](https://www.geckoboard.com/)
- [Google Data Studio | Free dashboard and reporting service focused on marketing data sources](https://datastudio.google.com/)
- [Sisense | BI Analytics suite](https://www.sisense.com/)
- [Looker | BI Analytics suite](https://looker.com/)
- [Canopy.cloud | Reporting and Analytics for Investors and Wealth managers](https://canopy.cloud/)
- [Chartio | Dashboard and Reporting platform](https://chartio.com/)

## Deployment Environments
- [dstack - an open-source framework for building data science applications using Python and R](https://github.com/dstackai/dstack)

# Libraries
## Python
### Visualization
- [AutoViz](https://github.com/AutoViML/AutoViz), Automatically Visualize any dataset, any size with a single line of code.

### Machine Learning
- [MLBox | powerful Automated Machine Learning python library](https://github.com/AxeldeRomblay/MLBox)
- [PyCaret | open source low-code machine learning library in Python](https://github.com/pycaret/pycaret)
- [PyTorch Lightning | open-source Python library as a high-level interface for PyTorch](https://github.com/PyTorchLightning/pytorch-lightning)

### Digital Marketing
- [Google Ads Performance Pipeline | Data integration pipeline from GAds to PostgreSQL](https://github.com/mara/google-ads-performance-pipeline)
- [Text-Mining-Search-Query | segements search terms to search words and summarizes performance metrics](https://github.com/RachelPengmkt/Text-Mining-Search-Query)
- [CRMint | reliable data integration and processing for advertisers](https://github.com/google/crmint)
- [Official Google Ads Python library | client library for Google Ads API](https://github.com/googleads/google-ads-python)
- [Official Google Ads Python library | SOAP Ads APIs for AdWords and DoubleClick for Publishers](https://github.com/googleads/googleads-python-lib)
- [GAQL CLI| Running GoogleAds queries](https://github.com/getyourguide/gaql-cli)
- [advertools | SEM, SEO, Social productivity & analysis tools to scale your online marketing](https://github.com/eliasdabbas/advertools)
- [pyaw-reporting | AdWords API large scale reporting tool written in Python](https://pypi.org/project/pyaw-reporting/)




# Learning
## Courses
### Free Courses
- Andrew Ng, Coursera, 54h [Machine Learning](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning)
- Herbert Lee, Coursera, 10h [Bayesian Statistics: From Concept to Data Analysis](https://www.coursera.org/learn/bayesian-statistics)
- Jeff Leek, Coursera/John Hopkins University, 300h [Data Science Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/jhu-data-science)
- CS109 Data Science, Harward [CS109](http://cs109.github.io/2015/pages/videos.html)
- Rafael Irizarry, Michael Love, Hardward/edX, 16h [Statistics and R](https://www.edx.org/course/statistics-and-r)
- Dave Holtz, Cheng-Han Lee, Udacity [Intro to Data Science](https://www.udacity.com/course/intro-to-data-science--ud359)
- Christopher Brooks, University of Michigan, 120h [Applied Data Science with Python Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-science-python)
- Saeed Aghabozorgi, IBM, 20h [Machine Learning with Python](https://www.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning-with-python)

### Paid Courses
- Jose Portilla, Udemy, 25h [Python for Data Science and Machine Learning Bootcamp](https://www.udemy.com/course/python-for-data-science-and-machine-learning-bootcamp/)
- https://www.udemy.com/course/datascience

### Free interactive learning websites
- Learnpython [Learnpython.org](https://www.learnpython.org/)
- W3 Schools [SQL](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/)

### Paid interactive learning websites
- [Qwiklabs | Learn on cloud environments and instances of aws, google cloud](https://www.qwiklabs.com/)

## Books
### Statistics & Mathematics
- [Bayesian Methods for Hackers](https://www.amazon.com/Bayesian-Methods-Hackers-Probabilistic-Addison-Wesley/dp/0133902838)
- [Naked Statistics: Stripping the Dread from the Data](https://www.amazon.com/Naked-Statistics-Stripping-Dread-Data-ebook/dp/B007Q6XLF2)
- [How to lie with statistics](https://www.amazon.com/How-Lie-Statistics-Darrell-Huff-ebook-dp-B00351DSX2/dp/B00351DSX2)
- [An Introduction to Statistical Learning: with Applications in R](https://www.amazon.com/Introduction-Statistical-Learning-Applications-Statistics/dp/1461471370)
- [Naked Statistics: Stripping the Dread from the Data](https://www.amazon.com/Naked-Statistics-Stripping-Dread-Data/dp/039334777X/)

### Data Visualization
- [Effective Data Visualization: The Right Chart for the Right Data](https://www.amazon.com/Effective-Data-Visualization-Right-Chart/dp/1544350880)
- [Data-Driven Storytelling (AK Peters Visualization Series](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Driven-Storytelling-AK-Peters-Visualization/dp/1138197106)
- [Making Data Visual: A Practical Guide to Using Visualization for Insights](https://www.amazon.com/Making-Data-Visual-Practical-Visualization/dp/1491928468)
- [Data Visualisation: A Handbook for Data Driven Design](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Visualisation-Handbook-Driven-Design/dp/1473912148)
- [Storytelling with Data: A Data Visualization Guide for Business Professionals](https://www.amazon.com/Storytelling-Data-Visualization-Business-Professionals/dp/1119002257)
- [Fundamentals of Data Visualization: A Primer on Making Informative and Compelling Figures](https://www.amazon.com/Fundamentals-Data-Visualization-Informative-Compelling/dp/1492031089)
- [The Art of Data Science](https://www.amazon.com/Art-Data-Science-Roger-Peng/dp/1365061469)
- [Python: Data Analytics and Visualization](https://www.amazon.com/Python-Analytics-Visualization-Phuong-Vo-T-H/dp/1788290097)

### Data Science in general
- [Python Data Science Handbook](https://www.amazon.com/Python-Data-Science-Handbook-Essential/dp/1491912057)
- [Big Data Science & Analytics: A Hands-On Approach](https://www.amazon.com/Big-Data-Science-Analytics-Hands/dp/0996025537)
- [Data Science from Scratch: First Principles with Python](https://www.amazon.com/Data-Science-Scratch-Principles-Python/dp/1492041130)
- [Everybody Lies: Big Data, New Data, and What the Internet Can Tell Us About Who We Really Are](https://www.amazon.com/Everybody-Lies-Internet-About-Really-ebook/dp/B01AFXZ2F4)

### Machine Learning
- [Deep Learning (Adaptive Computation and Machine Learning series)](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-NONE-Ian-Goodfellow-ebook/dp/B01MRVFGX4)
- [Hands-On Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn, Keras, and TensorFlow: Concepts, Tools, and Techniques to Build Intelligent Systems](https://www.amazon.com/Hands-Machine-Learning-Scikit-Learn-TensorFlow/dp/1492032646/)

### Data Architecture
- [Designing Data-Intensive Applications: The Big Ideas Behind Reliable, Scalable, and Maintainable Systems](https://www.amazon.com/Designing-Data-Intensive-Applications-Reliable-Maintainable/dp/1449373321)
